[docs][widgets] Add Expo Widgets docs (#42426)
expo/expo: docs/pages/versions/unversioned/sdk/widgets.mdx

---
title: Widgets
description: A library that enables creation of iOS home screen widgets and Live Activities using Expo UI components.
sourceCodeUrl: 'https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/main/packages/expo-widgets'
packageName: 'expo-widgets'
platforms: ['ios']
isAlpha: true
---

import APISection from '~/components/plugins/APISection';
import { APIInstallSection } from '~/components/plugins/InstallSection';
import { ConfigPluginExample, ConfigPluginProperties } from '~/ui/components/ConfigSection';

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> **important** This library is currently in alpha and subject to breaking changes. It is not available in the Expo Go app, use [development builds](/develop/development-builds/introduction) to try it out.

```

Since this library is in Alpha status and using Expo UI won't work with Expo Go. In this case, let's add a callout to provide the information about using development builds.

              "supportedFamilies": ["systemMedium", "systemLarge"]
            },
            {
              "name": "LockScreenWidget",
              "displayName": "Quick View",
              "description": "View info on your Lock Screen",
              "supportedFamilies": ["accessoryCircular", "accessoryRectangular", "accessoryInline"]
            }
          ]
        }
      ]
    ]
  }
}
```

## Usage

### Widgets

#### Basic widget

The simplest way to create a widget is using `updateWidgetSnapshot`. This creates a widget with a single timeline entry that displays immediately.

```tsx
import { updateWidgetSnapshot, WidgetBase } from 'expo-widgets';
import { Text, VStack } from '@expo/ui/swift-ui';
import { font, foregroundStyle } from '@expo/ui/swift-ui/modifiers';

type MyWidgetProps = {
  count: number;
};

const MyWidget = (props: WidgetBase<MyWidgetProps>) => {
  return (
    <VStack>
      <Text modifiers={[font({ weight: 'bold', size: 16 }), foregroundStyle('#000000')]}>
        Count: {props.count}
      </Text>
    </VStack>
  );
};

// Update the widget
updateWidgetSnapshot('MyWidget', MyWidget, { count: 5 });
```

> The widget name (`'MyWidget'`) must match the `name` field in your widget configuration in **app.json**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The widget name (`'MyWidget'`) must match the `name` field in your widget configuration in the [app config](/workflow/configuration/).
```

This is how we prefer describing app config files since there are multiple file variants, as per the writing style guide: https://github.com/expo/expo/blob/main/guides/Expo%20Documentation%20Writing%20Style%20Guide.md#referencing-appjsonappconfigjsonappconfigjsappconfigts

```tsx
import { updateWidgetSnapshot, WidgetProps, WidgetFamily } from 'expo-widgets';
import { Text, VStack, HStack } from '@expo/ui/swift-ui';

type WeatherWidgetProps = {
  temperature: number;
  condition: string;
};

const WeatherWidget = (props: WidgetProps<WeatherWidgetProps>) => {
  // Render different layouts based on size
  if (props.family === 'systemSmall') {
    return (
      <VStack>
        <Text>{props.temperature}°</Text>
      </VStack>
    );
  }

  if (props.family === 'systemMedium') {
    return (
      <HStack>
        <Text>{props.temperature}°</Text>
        <Text>{props.condition}</Text>
      </HStack>
    );
  }

  // systemLarge and others
  return (
    <VStack>
      <Text>Temperature: {props.temperature}°</Text>
      <Text>Condition: {props.condition}</Text>
      <Text>Updated: {props.date.toLocaleTimeString()}</Text>
    </VStack>
  );
};

updateWidgetSnapshot('WeatherWidget', WeatherWidget, {
  temperature: 72,
  condition: 'Sunny',
});
```

### Live Activities

Live Activities display real-time information on the Lock Screen and in the Dynamic Island on supported devices.

> #### Starting a Live Activity

Reviewer: Please update the HeadingCase.yml rule file to include these terms as exceptions.

Author: Added 🙏
